import in cloud: add the doc about how to upload local files (#11671)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-import-local-files.md

---
title: Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud
summary: Learn how to import local files to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud

You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to configure the cloud storage bucket path, ARN Role authorization or other complicated operations. Importing data to TiDB Cloud becomes quick and smooth.

This feature now supports importing one CSV file for one task into either an existing table or a new table.

## Limitations

- Currently TiDB Cloud only supports importing a local file in CSV format within 50 MiB for one task.

> - This feature only support Serverless Tier clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Importing local files is supported only for Serverless Tier clusters, not for Dedicated Tier clusters.
```

- If you import a CSV file into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, make sure that the order of the columns in the CSV file is the same as that in the target table.

## Import local files

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters), and choose your target project on the top of the left navigation bar.

2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**.

3. On the **Import** page, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local**.

> 4. Click **Upload File** to select and upload the local file. Note that the file name must have a ".csv" suffix and must be no more than 50 MiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Upload File** to select and upload the target local file. Note that the file name must have a ".csv" suffix and must be no more than 50 MiB.
```

5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table, or create a new database or new table. Then click **Next**.

    To create a new database or a new table, click **+ Create a new database** or **+ Create a new table**, directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z), and can contain numbers (0-9), letters (a-z and A-Z), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters.

    ![Upload local files](/media/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-upload-local-files.png)

6. Configure the table.

    Here you can see a list of configurable table columns. Each line shows the table column name (if it can be inferred by TiDB Cloud), the table column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.

>     - If you import data into an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names.
> 
>     - If you want to create a new table, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type is inferred by TiDB Cloud. For example, if the previewed data is all integers, the inferred column type will be **int** (integer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > - If you import data into an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names.
    > - If you want to create a new table, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type is inferred by TiDB Cloud. For example, if the previewed data is all integers, the inferred column type will be **int** (integer).
```

---
title: Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud
summary: Learn how to import local files to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud

> You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to perform operations such as providing the cloud storage bucket path and Role ARN. Importing data to TiDB Cloud can be quick and smooth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to your cluster immediately. Using this feature, you do not need to provide the cloud storage bucket path and Role ARN. Importing data to TiDB Cloud can be quick and smooth.
```

> You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to perform complicated operations such as the cloud storage bucket path and Role ARN. Importing data to TiDB Cloud becomes quick and smooth.

Reviewer: 这一段可以请 PM 再看看吗？
```suggestion
You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to perform operations such as providing the cloud storage bucket path and Role ARN. Importing data to TiDB Cloud can be quick and smooth.
```

> You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to configure the cloud storage bucket path, ARN Role authorization or other complicated operations. Importing data to TiDB Cloud becomes quick and smooth.

Author: ```suggestion
You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to perform complicated operations such as the cloud storage bucket path and Role ARN. Importing data to TiDB Cloud becomes quick and smooth.
```

> This feature now supports importing one CSV file for one task into either an existing table or a new table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, this method supports importing one CSV file for one task into either an existing table or a new table.
```

> ## Limitations

Reviewer 2: 要不要加一条 limitation: 

- You cannot run more than one import task at the same time.
<img width="799" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59654584/209645141-cdc9ef02-d101-4e97-90e8-8f59c94aba3b.png">

Reviewer: done

> - Currently TiDB Cloud only supports importing a local file in CSV format within 50 MiB for one task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currently, TiDB Cloud only supports importing a local file in CSV format within 50 MiB for one task.
```

> - Importing local files is supported only for Serverless Tier clusters, not for Dedicated Tier clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Importing local files is supported only for Serverless Tier clusters, not for Dedicated Tier clusters.
- You cannot run more than one import task at the same time.
```

> - If you import a CSV file into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, make sure that the order of the columns in the CSV file is the same as that in the target table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you import a CSV file into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, the order of the columns in the CSV file must be the same as that in the target table.
```

> - If you import a CSV file into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, make sure that the order of the columns in the CSV file is the same as that in the target table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If you import a CSV file into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, make sure that the first line of the CSV file contains the column names, and the order of the columns in the CSV file is the same as that in the target table.
```

## Import local files

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters), and choose your target project on the top of the left navigation bar.

2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**.

> 3. On the **Import** page, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. On the **Import** page, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local file**.
```

4. Click **Upload File** to select and upload the target local file. Note that the file name must have a ".csv" suffix and must be no more than 50 MiB.

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table, or create a new database or new table. Then click **Next**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. In the **Target** section, select the target database and the target table, or create a new database or new table. Then click **Next**.
```
<img width="571" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59654584/209644343-6eba7021-76d4-45a2-b48d-421c2d475312.png">

>     To create a new database or a new table, click **+ Create a new database** or **+ Create a new table**, directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To create a new database or a new table, click **+ Create a new database** or **+ Create a new table**, and directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters.
```

>     To create a new database or a new table, click **+ Create a new database** or **+ Create a new table**, directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To create a new database or a new table, click **+ Create a new database** or **+ Create a new table**, directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), and the underscore (_) characters.
```

    ![Upload local files](/media/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-upload-local-files.png)

6. Check the table.

>     Here you can see a list of configurable table columns. Each line shows the table column name (if it can be inferred by TiDB Cloud), the table column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here you can see a list of configurable table columns. Each line shows the table column name inferred by TiDB Cloud, the table column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.
```

>     - If you import data into an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you import data into an existing table in TiDB Cloud, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names.
```

    - If you want to create a new table, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type is inferred by TiDB Cloud. For example, if the previewed data is all integers, the inferred column type will be **int** (integer).

>  7. Configure the column names and data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Configure the column names and data types.
```

>     If your first row in the CSV file is column names, make sure that **Use the first row as Column Name** is selected, which is selected by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the first row in the CSV file records the column names, make sure that **Use the first row as Column Name** is selected, which is selected by default.
```

>     If your first row in the CSV file is column names, make sure that **Use the first row as Column Name** is selected, which is selected by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the first row in the CSV file records the column names, make sure that **Use the first row as Column Name** is selected, which is selected by default.
```

>     If the CSV file has no column names, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the CSV file does not have a row for the column names, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case:
```

>     If the CSV file has no columns, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case:

Author: ```suggestion
    If the CSV file has no column names, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case:
```

>     - If the table already exists, make sure the order of the columns is the same as the column list of the target table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the CSV table already exists, make sure the order of the columns is the same as the column list of the target table.
```

>     - If the table already exists, make sure the order of the columns is the same as the column list of the target table.

Reviewer: 感觉这里和上一句有些矛盾。上一句说“如果 CSV 文件没有列”，这一句作为上一句的一种情况却说“make sure the order of the columns”，似乎是有列了。另外，是否存在没有列的 CSV 表格？

Author: 改成了 If the CSV file has no column names

>     - If the table is not created yet, input the names for each column. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z), and can contain numbers (0-9), letters (a-z and A-Z), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters. You can also change the data type if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If the table is not created yet, input the names for each column. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters. You can also change the data type if needed.
```

>     - If the table is not created yet, input the names for each column. The name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters. You can also change the data type if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the CSV table is not created yet, input the names for each column. The column name must start with letters (a-z and A-Z) or numbers (0-9), and can contain letters (a-z and A-Z), numbers (0-9), the underscore (_), and the hyphen (-) characters. You can also change the data type if needed.
```
